---
tags: ["miss-w"]
---

## External Tools

I'm just gonna name these tools and what I used them for, but I'm not gonna explain them how to use them or implement them for various reasons:
1. **This is a template vault, and as such, it works as expected right out of the box, without doing any extra configuration** - By talking about these tools I'm going out of the way of the workflow and Obsidian itself to talk about other tools, and that's not the goal here.
2. **Previous Knowledge Needed** - Even thought there are some [[Plugins]] that needed previous experience, they where build in such a way that, even if you don't have an idea about them, you can "easily"^[It depends on the persons time, knowledge and interest on learning about it] learn how to use it and start applying it to the vault, something that you cannot do as easily as with this tools.
3. **Maybe it isn't worth for you** - Even thought I had said (and still saying) that maybe this vault/workflow isn't for you, I know for experience that the tools that are implemented here have helped me at some degree, and this tools can be pretty much malleable to suit your own needs. But these *external tools* are a different story, not only because they are fixated to work a certain way, but also they aren't meant for everyone (as oppose of Obsidian or (at some extend) this vault template).

The only reason I'm adding these tools is for the those who know what are and what could be use for. And for people that don't know what I'm talking about, don't worry, because not only I'm giving a short enumeration of said tools, but I'm also writing a small information/preview about what are they used for and, in case you are interested, you can always go to your preferred browser and start searching for more information about said tools.

Lets begin to talk about these *external tools*:
- **Sync your vault** - There are a number of ways you can sync your notes with other devices^[Being the best one using the [Obsidian Sync](https://obsidian.md/sync) service Obsidian provides], like using Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive, a physical USB drive and many others. The one that I personally use (some times the USB in case I'm not able to clone the repository) is `Git`/ `GitHub`
	- `Git` is a tool that programmers use in order to track the development of their application. In this case, we are tracking the different changes that we are making using Obsidian. This may sound a little overkill, since you aren't coding a program but writing content, and I couldn't agree with you more. **But**, since I work a lot of the time with `git`, it's just feel natural for me to use it, that's all.
	- `GitHub` is the service that stores your information online (*private* and *public*) so that you can access to it at any point. Pretty sure you have downloaded this template from my repository, but that doesn't mean you have to use `git` to sync your vault, that just one way to do it. ^38bf8e
		- And I must warn you, there are a number of issues that you'll end up running sooner or later (like using `submodules` inside your vault repository so that you can code your programs and take notes about them more easily). So, if you are considering this option, please do a day or two worth of trials an errors until you narrow down how it works and what could happen to your vault. (And, ***please***, make a local backup every once in a while, it won't hurt your device memory and it will save your vault more times that you think).
- **Library/References** - An interesting app that I'm starting to use and implement to my workflow is `Zotero`. This app holds all your `PDF`s,  `EPUB`s, books,  articles, whatever form of information may be stored in, in which you can underline quotes, take notes about said quotes inside `Zotero` and then export it out to `Markdown` (the format that follows all your Obsidian Files 😄). ^f7b50e
	- I personally still struggle to make en easy and smooth connection between the two application, so I can't provide much more information (there is the [[Zotero Integration]] plugin installed, you can look into its repository), so you'll have to search on your own.
		- **OR** you can go to the [Obsidian Discord Server](https://obsidian.md/community) and search about this topic, or straight up ask about it. Pretty much everyone there is very chill and will help you as good as they can. There are not a lot of rules, but the ones that there are, are followed strictly. These rules ask you to be a decent human being. It's not difficult so you'll be just fine 😊😊😊
- **Use Pen and Paper sometimes** - Something that I found myself (and others as well) is the constant need to use Obsidian for everything every time. As I said before, Obsidian is a tool for you to develop yourself and your knowledge the way you want it to, not to have a tool that "controls you".
	- Work on your workflow slowly and gently, you don't need to force anything, everything will come to place sooner or later. Concentrate your time on developing your skills one at a time, you'll master all the plugins that you need in time.
	- But also, from time to time go back to the basics, and use *pen and paper*. You'll be surprise the amount of times that you need to use it just to clear up your head, it's really helpful to write some stuff down whenever there are a lot of things on your mind. You have tools, use them to your advantage whenever you need them, that's why they're at your disposal.